README.md, before:

# CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation

Repository providing the source code for the paper "CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation", see the [project website](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/). Please cite the paper as follows:

	@article{chisari2024centergrasp,
	  title={CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation},
	  shorttile={CenterGrasp},
	  author={Chisari, Eugenio and Heppert, Nick and Welschehold, Tim and Burgard, Wolfram and Valada, Abhinav},
	  journal={IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L)},
	  year={2024}
	}

## Installation

For centergrasp

```bash
conda create --name centergrasp_g_env python=3.8
conda activate centergrasp_g_env
pip install torch==1.13.1+cu117 torchvision==0.14.1+cu117 torchaudio==0.13.1 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117
# pip install torch==1.13.1+cpu torchvision==0.14.1+cpu torchaudio==0.13.1 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
pip install kaolin==0.14.0 -f https://nvidia-kaolin.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/torch-1.13.1_cu117.html
git clone git@github.com:PRBonn/manifold_python.git
cd manifold_python
git submodule update --init
make install
cd CenterGrasp
pip install -e .
```

For GIGA

```bash
pip install cython
pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.13.1+cu117.html
# pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.13.1+cpu.html
pip install catkin-pkg --extra-index-url https://rospypi.github.io/simple/
git clone git@github.com:chisarie/GIGA.git
cd GIGA
git checkout baseline
pip install -e .
python scripts/convonet_setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

## Data Download

Follow the instructions in the `README.md` of [GIGA's repository](https://github.com/UT-Austin-RPL/GIGA) to download giga's pretrained models and object meshes (from `data.zip`), which are needed to run the evaluations.
Next, download the [robot description](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/franka.tar.gz) and the [ycb scenes description](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/maniskill_ycb.tar.gz), and extract both folders under `~/datasets/`.
In case you want to train CenterGrasp yourself, you can either download the [pre-generated data](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/centergrasp_g.tar.gz) (165 GB) and extract it under `~/datasets/`, or generate it yourself (see below).

## Data Generation

If you want to generate your own training data, follow these steps in order. 
First, download the pre-generated raw and processed data from [GIGA's repository](https://github.com/UT-Austin-RPL/GIGA), and place the four folders under `~/datasets/giga/`.
Then, run the following commands. The data will be saved in the `datasets` directory in your home folder.

```bash
python scripts/download_cc_texture.py  # Around 30GB will be downloaded
python scripts/make_grasp_labels.py --num-workers 4
python scripts/make_sgdf_dataset.py --num-workers 4
python scripts/make_rgb_dataset.py --headless --raytracing --num-workers 4 --mode train
python scripts/make_rgb_dataset.py --headless --raytracing --num-workers 4 --mode valid
```

## Pretrained Weights Download

Please download the pretrained weights ([sgdf decoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_sgdf/9vkd9370.zip), [rgb encoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_rgb/12c7ven5.zip)), extract them, and place them in the `ckpt_sgdf` and `ckpt_rgb` folders respectively, at the root of the repository. These are the models trained on the GIGA set of objects.

## Evaluation

To reproduce the results from the paper (Table II), do the following. If you want to evaluate a different checkpoint, remember to change the `--rgb-model` cli argument.

```bash
python scripts/run_evals_shape.py
python scripts/run_evals_grasp.py
```

## Training

To train your own policies instead of using the pretrained checkpoints, do the following:

```bash
python scripts/train_sgdf.py --log-wandb
```

Modify `configs/rgb_train_specs.json` -> `EmbeddingCkptPath` with the checkpoint id that you just trained. Now you can use those embeddings to train the rgbd model:

```bash
python scripts/train_rgbd.py --log-wandb
```

## GraspNet-1B

To reproduce the results on the GraspNet-1B dataset (Table III in the paper), please check out the folder `centergrasp/graspnet/`. The checkpoints trained on the GraspNet-1B data are here: [sgdf decoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_sgdf/6953cfxt.zip), [rgb encoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_rgb/el6oa23g.zip)

Commit message:

Added note on GraspNet1b in README.md

README.md, after:

# CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation

Repository providing the source code for the paper "CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation", see the [project website](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/). Please cite the paper as follows:

	@article{chisari2024centergrasp,
	  title={CenterGrasp: Object-Aware Implicit Representation Learning for Simultaneous Shape Reconstruction and 6-DoF Grasp Estimation},
	  shorttile={CenterGrasp},
	  author={Chisari, Eugenio and Heppert, Nick and Welschehold, Tim and Burgard, Wolfram and Valada, Abhinav},
	  journal={IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L)},
	  year={2024}
	}

## Installation

For centergrasp

```bash
conda create --name centergrasp_g_env python=3.8
conda activate centergrasp_g_env
pip install torch==1.13.1+cu117 torchvision==0.14.1+cu117 torchaudio==0.13.1 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117
# pip install torch==1.13.1+cpu torchvision==0.14.1+cpu torchaudio==0.13.1 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
pip install kaolin==0.14.0 -f https://nvidia-kaolin.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/torch-1.13.1_cu117.html
git clone git@github.com:PRBonn/manifold_python.git
cd manifold_python
git submodule update --init
make install
cd CenterGrasp
pip install -e .
```

For GIGA

```bash
pip install cython
pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.13.1+cu117.html
# pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.13.1+cpu.html
pip install catkin-pkg --extra-index-url https://rospypi.github.io/simple/
git clone git@github.com:chisarie/GIGA.git
cd GIGA
git checkout baseline
pip install -e .
python scripts/convonet_setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

## Data Download

Follow the instructions in the `README.md` of [GIGA's repository](https://github.com/UT-Austin-RPL/GIGA) to download giga's pretrained models and object meshes (from `data.zip`), which are needed to run the evaluations.
Next, download the [robot description](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/franka.tar.gz) and the [ycb scenes description](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/maniskill_ycb.tar.gz), and extract both folders under `~/datasets/`.
In case you want to train CenterGrasp yourself, you can either download the [pre-generated data](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/centergrasp_g.tar.gz) (165 GB) and extract it under `~/datasets/`, or generate it yourself (see below).

## Data Generation

If you want to generate your own training data, follow these steps in order. 
First, download the pre-generated raw and processed data from [GIGA's repository](https://github.com/UT-Austin-RPL/GIGA), and place the four folders under `~/datasets/giga/`.
Then, run the following commands. The data will be saved in the `datasets` directory in your home folder.

```bash
python scripts/download_cc_texture.py  # Around 30GB will be downloaded
python scripts/make_grasp_labels.py --num-workers 4
python scripts/make_sgdf_dataset.py --num-workers 4
python scripts/make_rgb_dataset.py --headless --raytracing --num-workers 4 --mode train
python scripts/make_rgb_dataset.py --headless --raytracing --num-workers 4 --mode valid
```

## Pretrained Weights Download

Please download the pretrained weights ([sgdf decoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_sgdf/9vkd9370.zip), [rgb encoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_rgb/12c7ven5.zip)), extract them, and place them in the `ckpt_sgdf` and `ckpt_rgb` folders respectively, at the root of the repository. These are the models trained on the GIGA set of objects.

## Evaluation

To reproduce the results from the paper (Table II), do the following. If you want to evaluate a different checkpoint, remember to change the `--rgb-model` cli argument.

```bash
python scripts/run_evals_shape.py
python scripts/run_evals_grasp.py
```

## Training

To train your own policies instead of using the pretrained checkpoints, do the following:

```bash
python scripts/train_sgdf.py --log-wandb
```

Modify `configs/rgb_train_specs.json` -> `EmbeddingCkptPath` with the checkpoint id that you just trained. Now you can use those embeddings to train the rgbd model:

```bash
python scripts/train_rgbd.py --log-wandb
```

## GraspNet-1B

To reproduce the results on the GraspNet-1B dataset (Table III in the paper), please check out the folder `centergrasp/graspnet/`. Note that you first need to download the [GraspNet-1B dataset](https://graspnet.net/datasets.html). The checkpoints trained on the GraspNet-1B data are here: [sgdf decoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_sgdf/6953cfxt.zip), [rgb encoder](http://centergrasp.cs.uni-freiburg.de/download/ckpt_rgb/el6oa23g.zip)
